Added New Material System Documentation (#1730)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/atom-guide/look-dev/materials/material-type-file-spec.md

{{< note >}}
To upgrade the *.material* source file to match the latest version of the material type, simply open it in the Material Editor and then save.
{{< /note >}}

* **toVersion**
Indicates the material type version when these changes were introduced. The update step will be applied to any material with a [`materialTypeVersion`](material-file-spec/#materialtypeversion-optional) number less than this value.

* **actions**
A list of actions to perform when applying this update. Each action will first have an `op` parameter to indicate what operation to perform. Additional parameters must be specificed depending on which operation is used. Available actions and their required parameters are listed:
| op            | Parameter 1 | Description          | Parameter 2 | Description        |
|---------------|-------------|----------------------|-------------|--------------------|
| rename        | from        | old property name    | to          | new property name  |
| setValue      | name        | property name to set | value       | new property value, must be of the appropriate type for the given property |

> #### **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

This section defines the set of properties that will be available in the Material Editor, and what shader inputs or shader options they will connect to. Properties are organized into groups, and each group can contain other groups, forming a hierarchy. The Material Editor's property inspector will organize the properties into group panels accordingly.

It is common practice to "factor-out" property group definitions into separage JSON files using the $import feature so the group can be reused in multiple *.materialtype* files.

* **propertyGroups**: the top-level list of property groups. Each group contains the following:
  * **name**: An identifier for this group. The value must be formatted in C-style, and unique among sibling groups. 
  * **displayName**: The given name of this group that will appear in the Material Editor. 
  * **description**: The given description of this group that will appear as tooltips in the Material Editor.
  * **shaderInputsPrefix**: Any shader input names appearing in this group, such as shader constants or shader images, will automatically prepend this value. This is useful when using $import to include a shared group definitions in another group.

>   * **shaderOptionsPrefix**: Any shader option names appearing in this group will automatically prepend this value. This is useful when using $import to include a shared group definitions in another group.

Author: ```suggestion
  * **shaderOptionsPrefix**: Any shader option names that appear in this group will automatically prepend this value. This is useful when using $import to include a shared group definitions in another group.
```

      - Enabled
      - Disabled
      - Hidden
    * **type**: The data type for this propoerty. Supported types include:
      - Bool
      - Int
      - UInt
      - Float
      - Vector2
      - Vector3
      - Vector4
      - Color
      - Image
      - Enum
    * **enumValues**: A list of names defining the possible values for an `Enum` type property.
    * **enumIsUv**: Set to `true` for an `Enum` type property to use the UV names from [`uvNameMap`](#uvnamemap) as the possible enum values.
    * **defaultValue**: The default value to use for this property. The value must be specified using the appropriate data type according to its standard JSON serialization, see [JSON Serialization of O3DE Data Types](/docs/user-guide/programming/serialization/json-data-types). If no default is provided, then the default will be false, 0, or empty according to the data type.
    * **min**: The minimum value for this property, used to configure the range of sliders or similar UI widgets.
    * **max**: The maximum value for this property, used to configure the range of sliders or similar UI widgets.
    * **softMin**: Similar to `min`, but the user can manually entry a smaller value.

>     * **softMax**: Similar to `max`, but the user can manually entry a larger value.

Reviewer: I see, so according to this definition for softMin and softMax, is there a limitation for what value the user can enter?

Also, can min/max and softMin/softMax exist together?

>     * **softMax**: Similar to `max`, but the user can manually entry a larger value.

Author: The value should be according to the property type, just like defaultValue.
Yes you can mix them, it's common to have min with softMax.

>     * **softMax**: Similar to `max`, but the user can manually entry a larger value.

Author: I updated the descriptions to include a note about combining values.

                "description": "General settings.",
                "properties": [
                    {
                        "name": "applySpecularAA",
                        "displayName": "Apply Specular AA",
                        "description": "Whether to apply specular anti-aliasing in the shader.",
                        "type": "Bool",
                        "defaultValue": false,
                        "connection": {
                            "type": "ShaderOption",
                            "name": "o_applySpecularAA"
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        "name": "enableMultiScatterCompensation",
                        "displayName": "Multiscattering Compensation",
                        "description": "Whether to enable multiple scattering compensation.",
                        "type": "Bool",
                        "connection": {
                            "type": "ShaderOption",
                            "name": "o_enableMultiScatterCompensation"
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    },
...
```

## **version** (deprecated)

> This version number is no longer used and has been replaced by [`version`](#version).

Author: This is under the propertyLayout section. The new one is at the top level. I can clarify the text a bit.

## **shaders**  
An array of references to shader files (`*.shader`) to be used to render materials of this type. By default, all shaders are enabled, but they may be disabled using [`functors`](#functors).

Each shader item includes the following values. 

* **file**: The path to the shader file. The path must be relative to the asset root or to the material type file.
* **tag**: A unique name for this shader item that can be used to reference the shader from other places in the material type definition, like in material functors. It must be a C-Style identifier.
* **options**: Set the initial value for any options in this shader, using a list of key/value pairs.

> In this example, we reference the ShadowMap and DepthPass shaders. 

Reviewer: Consistency with "#### Example" throughout this page. 
```suggestion
#### **Example**  
In this example, we reference the ShadowMap and DepthPass shaders. 
```

```JSON
"shaders": [
    {
        "file": "../ShadowMap.shader",
        "tag": "shadowmap",
        "options": {
            "o_depthBiasMode": "DepthBiasMode::Auto"
        }
    },
    {
        "file": "../DepthPass.shader",
        "tag": "depth"
    },
    ...
]
```

## **functors**
An array of material functors. Each one reads material property values, performs some logic or calculations, and sets shader inputs accordingly. These can be defined in Lua or C++. Each functor data contains the following:

> * **type**: The name of the functor type. This will be "Lua" for custom Lua script functors, or the name of specialized functor type (defined in C++).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **type**: The name of the functor type. Possible values are:
    - `Lua` - for custom Lua script functors
    - The name of a specialized functor type (defined in C++).
```

* **args**: An object containing key/value pairs of all the arguments to send to this functor. The arguments vary depending on functor type.

Several core functor types are provided with the engine, listed here. 

{{< note >}}
Additional functor types can be added by other gems or game projects. Try searching the source code for "RegisterMaterialFunctor" to discover what others might be available.
{{< /note >}}

> #### Lua

Reviewer: Switching it to header 3 still maintains the hierarchy and allows the header to appear in the right-pane TOC navigation. 
```suggestion
### Lua
```

> This functor type operates using custom lua scripts. It is the most flexible functor type available, and can be used in almost any situation, but with poor performance compared to the other functor types. 
> 
> See [Lua Material Functor API](/docs/atom-guide/dev-guide/materials/lua-material-functor-api/) for details about the lua script itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functor type operates using custom Lua scripts. It's the most flexible functor type available, and can be used in almost any situation. However, it has poor performance compared to the other functor types. 

See [Lua Material Functor API](/docs/atom-guide/dev-guide/materials/lua-material-functor-api/) for details about the Lua script itself.
```

Arguments:

> * **file**: The path to a *.lua* file that contains material functor code. The path must be relative to the asset root or to the material type file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **file**: The path to a `.lua` file that contains material functor code. The path must be relative to the asset root or to the material type file.
```

* **srgNamePrefix**: Any ShaderResourceGroup field names appearing in the functor will automatically prepend this value. Note this is only intended for use with functors defined at the top level of the material type; the functors within property groups will get their prefixes from the property group.
* **optionsNamePrefix**: Any shader option names appearing in the functor will automatically prepend this value. Note this is only intended for use with functors defined at the top level of the material type; the functors within property groups will get their prefixes from the property group.

Example JSON:
```json
    ...
    {
        "type": "Lua",
        "args": {
            "file": "Materials/Types/StandardPBR_Roughness.lua",
            "propertyNamePrefix": "layer2_roughness.",
            "srgNamePrefix": "m_layer2_",
            "optionsNamePrefix": "o_layer2_"
        }
    },
    ...
```

> #### UseTexture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### UseTexture
```

Sets a use-texture *shader option* to false if a use-texture *property* is false, or if an `Image` type property has no image bound.

Arguments:
* **textureProperty**: The name of an `Image` type property.

> * **useTextureProperty**: The name of a `bool` type property. This property will also be hidden if the texture property is null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **useTextureProperty**: The name of a `bool` type property. This property is hidden if the texture property is null.
```

* **dependentProperties**: (optional) A list of other properties that are irrelevant when no texture is being used. These will be hidden or disabled when the texture is null or unused.
* **shaderTags**: (optional) If provided, the shader option will only be set on this list of shaders. See **tags** in the [Shaders](#shaders) section.
* **shaderOption**: The name of the use-texture shader option to set.

Example JSON:
```json
    ...
    {
        "type": "UseTexture",
        "args": {
            "textureProperty": "baseColor.textureMap",
            "useTextureProperty": "baseColor.useTexture",
            "dependentProperties": ["baseColor.textureMapUv", "baseColor.textureBlendMode"],
            "shaderOption": "o_baseColor_useTexture"
        }
    },
    ...
```

> #### Transform2D

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transform2D
```

> Reads user-friendly properties like rotation and scale and converts them to a 2D transform matrix for the shader to consume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reads user-friendly properties, like rotation and scale, and converts them to a 2D transform matrix for the shader to consume.
```

Arguments:

> * **transformOrder**: This should be set to an array of strings that indicate the order in which rotate, translate, and scale should be performed. It is recommend to always use _[ "Rotate", "Translate", "Scale" ]_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **transformOrder**: An array of strings that indicate the order in which rotate, translate, and scale should be performed. It is recommend to always use `[ "Rotate", "Translate", "Scale" ]`.
```

* **centerProperty**: The name of a `Vector2` type property. Defines the center of rotation and scale.
* **scaleProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Controls the overall scale of the transformation.
* **scaleXProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Controls the X-scale.
* **scaleYProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Controls the Y-scale.
* **translateXProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Controls the X-translation.
* **translateYProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Controls the Y-translation.
* **rotateDegreesProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Controls the amount of rotation in degrees.
* **float3x3ShaderInput**: The name of a `float3x3` shader constant for the final transform matrix.
* **float3x3InverseShaderInput**: (optional) The name of a `float3x3` shader constant for an inverse of the final transform matrix. This may be needed by some shaders, for example ones that use a parallax mapping effect.

> Example JSON:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

```json
    {
        "type": "Transform2D",
        "args": {
            "transformOrder": [ "Rotate", "Translate", "Scale" ],
            "centerProperty": "center",
            "scaleProperty": "scale",
            "scaleXProperty": "tileU",
            "scaleYProperty": "tileV",
            "translateXProperty": "offsetU",
            "translateYProperty": "offsetV",
            "rotateDegreesProperty": "rotateDegrees",
            "float3x3ShaderInput": "m_uvMatrix",
            "float3x3InverseShaderInput": "m_uvMatrixInverse"
        }
    }
```

> #### ConvertEmissiveUnit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ConvertEmissiveUnit
```

This is a specialized functor for a standardized set of emissive lighting properties. It allows an enum property to select a light instensity unit (either nits or EV100) and converts a light intensity property's value accordingly.

Arguments:
* **intensityProperty**: The name of a `float` type property. Specifies the intensity of the emissive light.
* **lightUnitProperty**: The name of a `Enum` type property. Indicates the units for the intesity value.
* **shaderInput**: The name of a `float` shader constant that will receive the final intensity value. This is assumed to be in nits.

> * **ev100Index**: An integer value that corresponds to the enum value for EV100, according to the definition of the _lightUnitProperty_.
> * **nitIndex**: An integer value that corresponds to the enum value for nits, according to the definition of the _lightUnitProperty_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **ev100Index**: An integer value that corresponds to the enum value for EV100, according to the definition of the `lightUnitProperty`.
* **nitIndex**: An integer value that corresponds to the enum value for nits, according to the definition of the `lightUnitProperty`.
```

* **ev100MinMax**: An array of two floats, indicating the min and max intensity value when operating in _EV100_ mode.
* **nitMinMax**: An array of two floats, indicating the min and max intensity value when operating in _nits_ mode.

Example JSON:
```json
    {
        "type": "ConvertEmissiveUnit",
        "args": {
            "intensityProperty": "intensity",
            "lightUnitProperty": "unit",
            "shaderInput": "m_emissiveIntensity",
            "ev100Index": 0,
            "nitIndex" : 1,
            "ev100MinMax": [-10, 20],
            "nitMinMax": [0.001, 100000.0]
        }
    },
```

> #### HandleSubsurfaceScatteringParameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HandleSubsurfaceScatteringParameters
```

> This is a specialized functor for a standardized set of properties for controlling subsurface scattering and light transmission features. See `Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/Materials/Types/Skin.materialtype` for example usage.

Reviewer: Shortened file name and added link to the file in o3de repo. Revised last sentence so it's a complete sentence. 
```suggestion
This is a specialized functor for a standardized set of properties for controlling subsurface scattering and light transmission features. See [`Skin.materialtype`](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/Materials/Types/Skin.materialtype) for an example of its usage.
```

> Example JSON:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

            "distortion": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionDistortion",
            "attenuation": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionAttenuation",
            "shrinkFactor": "subsurfaceScattering.shrinkFactor",
            "transmissionNdLBias": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionNdLBias",
            "distanceAttenuation": "subsurfaceScattering.distanceAttenuation",
            "tintColor": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionTint",
            "thickness": "subsurfaceScattering.thickness",
            "enabled": "subsurfaceScattering.enableSubsurfaceScattering",
            "scatterDistanceColor": "subsurfaceScattering.scatterColor",
            "scatterDistanceIntensity": "subsurfaceScattering.scatterDistance",
            "scatterDistanceShaderInput": "m_scatterDistance",
            "parametersShaderInput": "m_transmissionParams",
            "tintThickenssShaderInput": "m_transmissionTintThickness"
        }
    },
```

#### OverrideDrawList (deprecated)
This functor was used to override a shader's draw list name before the Lua functor type was available. Use a Lua functor with the `SetDrawListTagOverride` function instead.

> ### **uvNameMap**

Reviewer: Verify that this property should be at the same level as `## functors`.
```suggestion
## **uvNameMap**
```

Author: Yes, same level as functors.

This maps default identifiers for mesh UV streams. When loading meshes, the runtime will try to match UV streams from the incoming geometry using these names. 

For each entry, the key must match the semantic used for a `float2` vertex input. The value should be a user-friendly name that is consistent with the intended purpose of the stream, and consistent with the names of similar streams in other material types. By default, all core material types in O3DE use the names "Tiled" (meaning tiling is expected so overlaping hulls is acceptable) and "Unwrapped" (meaning this is used for lightmaps and similar, so hulls should not overlap in the UV space).

> #### **Example**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

            "scale": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionScale",
            "power": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionPower",
            "distortion": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionDistortion",
            "attenuation": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionAttenuation",
            "shrinkFactor": "subsurfaceScattering.shrinkFactor",
            "transmissionNdLBias": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionNdLBias",
            "distanceAttenuation": "subsurfaceScattering.distanceAttenuation",
            "tintColor": "subsurfaceScattering.transmissionTint",
            "thickness": "subsurfaceScattering.thickness",
            "enabled": "subsurfaceScattering.enableSubsurfaceScattering",
            "scatterDistanceColor": "subsurfaceScattering.scatterColor",
            "scatterDistanceIntensity": "subsurfaceScattering.scatterDistance",
            "scatterDistanceShaderInput": "m_scatterDistance",
            "parametersShaderInput": "m_transmissionParams",
            "tintThickenssShaderInput": "m_transmissionTintThickness"
        }
    },
```

### OverrideDrawList (deprecated)
Replaced by the use of a Lua functor with the `SetDrawListTagOverride` function. 

{{< note >}}

> Before deprecation, this functor was used to override a shader's draw list name before the Lua functor type was available. 

Reviewer: Actually, you can remove "Before deprecation", so there isn't two "before" clauses in one sentence. Moved the before clause to the front. 
```suggestion
Before the Lua functor type was available, this functor was used to override a shader's draw list name. 
```
